Evaluate the economic and political impact of the domestic policies of Nicholas II between 1894 and 1914 The weak Tsar Nicholas II, unfit to even run a post office, was one of the more influential Tsars of his time. Under Nicholas II, there were vast improvements to the economy, especially when evaluating both Sergei Witte and Pyotr Stolypin. As pertaining to Nicholas’ political impacts, his October Manifesto was a step in the right direction, but it also took 2 steps back. The rise of Sergei Witte as Finance Minister in 1892 did wonders for the Russian economy. Witte wanted to catch Russia up with the rest of Europe in terms of industry and he did just that. Under Witte, Russia was able to increase their production in the heavy industries by 400% between 1890 and 1910. This greatly benefitted the outside perception of Russia to be that of an improving imperial power. This allowed Russia to attract more foreign investments, specifically from France. An increase in foreign investment from $200M to $900M rubles from 1890 to 1900 was instrumental in advancing Russian industry. Putting the Russian ruble on the Gold Standard was also a factor in enticing such foreign loans, as it made other nations feel as if the currency was less volatile. Despite all these positive impacts, two looming negatives pertain. 20% of the Russian budget went to paying off foreign debts which greatly ruined public perception of the Tsar and Witte. This consequently led to Witte’s demotion in 1903 after facing criticism from workers over poor working conditions and the nobility over a lack of preferential treatment. These poor working conditions worked as the breeding ground for a new wave of Russian revolutionaries such as the Mensheviks and Bolsheviks. All-in-all however, these domestic policies favouring industrial growth are mostly heralded as positive, as historian Hugh Seton-Watson said, “Sergei Witte was one of the most outstanding statesmen of the 19th century.” After Witte’s dismissal, a new man in charge of the economy came into the vast Russian political landscape, Pyotr Stolypin. The basis of all the “Stolypin measures” was to build a larger rural/agrarian supporting group for the Tsar Some of said measures include the removal of redemption dues, allowing peasants to properly own and buy their own land, and encouraging eastward settlement. Impacts of these policies include a 33% increase in agricultural production paired with a 30% increase of land ownership in part thanks to the newfound kulaks, as well as 1.5 million people migrating to Siberia in the first 3 years of Stolypin’s time in office. However, due to his “enlightened conservatism”, Stolypin was assassinated in 1911. Of course such positive impacts from Stolypin could not have come without failures. There was still the pressing issue of overpopulation only exacerbated by the fact that the nobility and gentry owned the best land in the country. Despite the successes and limitations, many historians still argue if Stolypin’s rule was an overall success or failure. Optimist historians claim that if he didn’t die so soon, these Stolypin measures would have promoted even more economic fruition. The other side, the “pessimists” debate that Stolypin’s measures only bred more socialist/revolutionary sentiments in Russia. The domestic hallmark of Nicholas II’s reign is arguably the October Manifesto passed on October 30 (or 17), 1905. This manifesto was done in response to Jan. 9, 1905’s Bloody Sunday. Bloody Sunday led to widespread socio-economic and political unrest as 400,000 workers went on strike immediately after the events of Bloody Sunday and 2.7 million workers striked over the course of the year. (Rail strikes in Oct 1905 almost shut down the country). So after seeing all this unrest, Nicholas II decided to institute the October Manifesto, a concession of power of sorts. Subjects of the state now had the freedom of speech and expression, as well as a new legislative assembly, the Duma. The October Manifesto